# Description

This repository contains files needed to generate a presentation for the SIAM CSE 2013 Meeting in Boston, MA.

## Dependencies

- Pandoc
- Beamer (for Beamer-formatted talk)

## Instructions

### Generating a pretty-printed version of this README

Use the command:

    pandoc -t html README.md -o README.html
    
I use Pandoc to convert Markdown to HTML, but for this README, any Markdown to HTML converter should suffice.

### Generating slide shows:

General notes:
- Sizing of images varies based on format. For instance, 150 pixel by
  200 pixel images fill space nicely in Beamer slides, but look tiny
  in S5 slides (as would be expected). I no longer have images in my
  slides, but if I did, this issue would be tricky.
- There are now two versions:
    + The "performance version": `talk-performance.md`, which contains
    what I would actually present
    + The "notes version": `talk-notes.md`, which is what I'd give
    + `<talk-file>` refers to one of these two versions
    people who won't see me actually perform the talk
- I wish there were some way for me to hide content or be able to
  splice two versions of the talk out of one file. I may still use
  this project to experiment with the "two versions-one file" concept,
  because the slides are simple: all text.
- Mid-slide-title cross-format line-breaking is hard. I decided to
  enforce the line breaks in HTML, but the HTML line-breaking is
  ignored in non-HTML-derived formats (e.g., LaTeX). So it's great for
  S5, but terrible for everything else.

To generate an barebones S5 presentation from the talk notes, use the command:

    pandoc -t s5 <talk-file> --self-contained -o <output-html-file>
    
To customize the S5 talk, it is probably better to modify the base command

    pandoc -t s5 <talk-file> -o <output-html-file>
    
and add stylesheets, and so forth.

To generate a minimalist beamer presentation in PDF format from the talk notes, use the command:

    pandoc -t beamer <talk-file> -o <output-html-file>
    
Some formatting has been added in the LaTeX template `beamer-talk-template.tex`. It requires the following LaTeX packages:

- relsize
- textpos
- eso-pic
- hyperref

To use this template, run:

    pandoc --template=beamer-talk-template.tex -t beamer <talk-file>
    -o <output-pdf-file>
    
There is a bibliography for the talk that contains references. For
now, the bibliography is automatically generated by Mendeley 1.8 and
stored in BibTeX format as `talk-bibliography.bib`. In the future, I
would like to use Zotero, and use some sort of database versioning
system that works with Git (hopefully Mercurial also).

To use the template and the bibliography, run

    pandoc --template=beamer-talk-template.tex
    --bibliography=talk-bibliography.bib -t beamer <talk-file> -o
    <output-pdf-file>
    
which will output references in Chicago style. To use an alternate
bibliography format, run

    pandoc --template=beamer-talk-template.tex
    --bibliography=talk-bibliography.bib --csl=<csl-style-file> -t
    beamer <talk-file> -o <output-pdf-file>

where `<csl-style-file>` is a file in the citation style language
(CSL). To quote the
[Pandoc user guide](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html): "A
primer on creating and modifying CSL styles can be found at
http://citationstyles.org/downloads/primer.html. A repository of CSL
styles can be found at
https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles. See also
http://zotero.org/styles for easy browsing."


